Reflection #8:
This has been the hardest week for me out of the entire semester. Last week I was in the middle of doing project 2, and at the
time it seemed like my team was on a great trajectory to finish. However, things went very wrong. It turns out that no one on
our team was completely familiar with how to use IPython as a compiler or tool for testing python code. Also, half of our group
did not have the virtual machine configured for IPython. Realizing this way too late, we were unable to submit a working version
of the project.
Experiencing the benefits of failing early the hard way, we decided to all go to office hours this weekend to get back on the
same page and move forward as a collective unit. We spent 2 hours in office hours configuring everyone's virtual machine and
setting up IPython. It felt good having someone bring the group together. It was hard for us because each of us had different
parts of virtual machine and IPython set up, but none of us knew how to tie everything together since no one had the entire
system completely working. The value of having a mentor was readily apparent in this case. I have been seeking Aaron's help,
and will do so even more now because it really is essential to learning these cryptic concepts that I have really never been
exposed to.
I want to see more collaboration across groups, almost no one helped others in other groups even after people asked. I experienced
this personally. There was disincentive; everyone has so much stuff going on in other classes and with recruiting, that spending
time on others who aren't going to impact their own grade would be "inefficient." I do want to commend koa for really taking
time to help people, he was probably the only one who answered my issues and other's issues as well. I hope I can actually
contribute answers instead of questions next time. 
With our new project being a class project rather than a group project, I am both hopeful and anxious to see what happens.
With small groups, there was already a lot of free riding, who knows what will happen with a class project. Nonetheless, I will
look optimistically into the future.
