Reflection 6:
The majority of what I learned this week was from doing the group project, and then discussing how to improve after
realizing pluses and deltas. Before all else, I want to say that this assignment seemed impossible at first; I honestly
could not believe we had to assemble an entire presentation in three days, especially without much instruction. From this,
I now can understand how hard it is to make what your employers want without fully understanding the objectives first.
Going into office hours cleared up a majority of problems circulating within the group and defined a clear vision,
reproducibility above perfection. After those two hours, stress levels had gone from an all time high to a manageable
mean, since the hardest part of the project was still ahead of us; actually making it. However, there was a significant
difference in productivity when comparing our efforts before and after office hours. Before we all had trouble
understanding what each role was required to create and to what degree of detail. However, afterwards the teamwork was
seamless; each person clearly defined their end product to other members and we worked simultaneously to produce what we
believe is a reproducible and meaningful project. Personally, I gained insights in not only the technical aspects of this
class (Github, Virtual Machine, Unix. and IPython), but also team dynamics in a relatively new group.
As listed in our IPython notebook, our team ran into a few notable roadblocks. The first was getting everyone on the same
page, essentially communication between busy Berkeley students. Facebook resolved this problem completely. Everyone in
our group uses Facebook frequently so it was reassurance that everyone has been updated on what has been done, what still
needs to be done, and what they can do to help. In addition, there were technical issues with programming with R, IPython,
and Github. For this, we used a variety of sources (most notable ones listed in the IPython notebook) ranging from
Stackover flow to technical guides on Google. When we ran into a technical problem, we read through Google links until
one resolved the issue, and then extract them to later include in our final project.
As for where we are going, I love the fusion of structure and mystery, it keeps the class to its core values without
inducing too much stress. I hope we will get handouts soon that outline what we have already went over in detail so we
have something tangible to bring into future endeavors.
