Reflection 13:
This week I did a lot of retrospective evaluations on the course. I think the course has been a great bridge between traditional
education and the real world. It also reveals the biggest problems that companies face. For example, certain individuals in the
class doing a majority of the work. I have heard my parents complain about this when I was in high school, I have heard my
friends who recently graduated talk about this in regards to their new jobs, and now I have experienced this first hand in an
environment that mirrors the tasks in a work environment. From this, I also learned that there is a lot of value to be gained
from having structure and leaders who will delegate tasks to others. With the introduction of tangible references and buckets of
tasks, productivity multiplied. Students are motivated by direction, which is the key to being able to visualize a final product.
In future semesters of teaching this course, I really hope to see more tutorials, handouts, examples of successful products, and
most of all, a syllabus that gives students clear learning objectives that will motivate them to catch up if they are behind or
organize their thoughts on the current material. 
Moreover, a great portion of the class, for everyone, was spent not knowing what to actually do. Some people became inert, others
tried to get the class back on a productive track, and some tried to do personal projects that they believed would fit in with
the overarching goal. There have been a few complaints expressing how little the class taught. However, I disagree. It challenged
us to collect ourselves in the face of all the chaos and randomness, to make something out of impossible disorder. I think through
this class, although the “main objective” was not met, it taught students how to adapt to a new environment completely different
from what was expected. In life, there is no grading rubric or syllabus. You are expected to do whatever is necessary in the
present, not what is pre-determined. 
So the idea of reproducibility and defensibility was not necessarily lost through all of the turmoil and confusion we experienced
in class. In fact, these concepts have been reinforced throughout the semester without us even knowing it. Every time we submit
a project or make progress on something, we are making sure our group members and class understands it. Many of us made
presentations that described the most granular concepts in detail so that our classmates could read them in their own time and
understand them in case the in-class presentations went too fast. Every time we write a reflection we are expected to defend our
opinions regarding the class. Every time we do something not specifically defined as relevant, we must explain why it was
necessary. 
In the beginning we all thought reproducibility was about being able to run the same code on any system and produce the same
results. While this is important, I now interpret reproducible work as being organic; in the scientific community researchers
are constantly building on each other’s work and changing bits and pieces to align with their respective goals. Research is the
most effective when others can build off of it and that can only be achieved if the foundation of the research is there, not
just the end results. For example, when we had access to Professor Luen’s code and models, we found it difficult to adjust it
because our understanding of the subject matter was elementary compared to his. The greatest set back in science is assuming
that people know more than they do. We can see this in dense textbooks and in research papers. Although taking a step back and
revisiting information you personally believe is trivial can be a time sink, this class has shown the exponential returns
doing so will have on other people. Every presentation given in this class proved to be a motivating factor for everyone who
did not necessarily know what was going on. It gave them the confidence to move forward, which is the greatest metric for
progress. I remember the first week Kristina said that only graduate students can understand how suffocating it can be to
deal with un-reproducible work because they are the only ones who experience it first-hand. The truth is all undergraduates
deal with it first-hand, whether it is through poorly written textbooks or professors who assume their students know more
than they do, but it does not occur frequently enough to cause undergraduates to think twice about it. It has been a semester
now, and I can’t imagine any of the 45 students in Stat 157 who could disagree with how important the idea of reproducibility
is anymore. In the oddest of ways, this class has achieved its goal. 
